[MUSIC]
[SOUND] So
we've been talking about pins and
how they can be inputs and outputs,
and be digital and analog.
And so now, we're gonna talk about
how you do that from the code.
So what code do you need to write,
what function calls do you need to make
in order to use the pins as inputs and
outputs, in order to use
them as digital and analog?
So, this is from the sketch point of view,
what you have to put in your sketch.
Basically, we're gonna go through
the library function calls,
the library functions,
the Arduino library functions that you
have to use in order to use the pins.
So, pins can be inputs or outputs.
Not all the pins, some of the pins
can't be inputs, or can't be outputs.
For instance, the analog pins, right?
Analog pins, they can be inputs but they
can be outputs, but let's say the digital
pins, the standard digital pins,
they can be input and output.
So, before you use the pins,
you have to select if the pin is going
to act as an input or an output.
And you should do this for all the pins,
or any pin that you're going to use.
You gotta select it up front.
So before you use it,
before you try to read from it or
write to it, you have to assign
it to be an input or an output.
Now if you don't do this,
something will happen.
[LAUGH] It will have a default value.
So, by default, the pin will
either be an input or output, and
tell you the truth I can't remember which,
but you can look up that up.
But it will be default to something, but
you should never rely
on the default value.
You should always use this.
Before you access the pins,
you should call this function,
this pinMode function, in order to assign
the pin to either an input or output.
So, the function's called pinMode, and
note that the capitalization matters.
So lower case pin,
that M has to be capital.
So you call this function pinMode.
It's a library function.
It takes two arguments, pin and mode.
The job of this is to set a pin to
be either an input or an output.
The pin, the first argument
is the number of the pin, or
the reference name of the pin.
Now the digital pins, their reference
names are just their numbers.
So pins 0-13 are the digital pins.
The analog pins, you have to call
them A0-A5, those are their names.
So the pin has to be 0-13 or A0-A5,
those are the only valid pin numbers.
For an Arduino Uno anyway, and if you
go to a bigger Arduino with more pins,
maybe you get more numbers, but for
an Arduino Uno, those are the valid pins.
Then, the mode, which is the second
argument, there are three possible modes.
The first mode is input, and that means
you want the pin to be an input pin.
The second mode is output, which means
you want it to be an output pin.
You're gonna drive values onto it.
The third mode is INPUT_PULLUP.
So INPUT_PULLUP.
Basically what that does,
is it makes the pin act like an input, but
it reverses the polarity.
So, when they drive zero volts on it, when
they drive it low, you read it as a high.
Or when they drive a high,
you read it as a low.
So it's reverse polarity input.
So digital inputs.
So let's say we're talking
about the digital pins, and
we've assigned this pin to be an input.
We used pinMode,
we made pin zero and input.
Now, we wanna, in our code, actually read
from the pin, read a value from the pin.
So, for that,
use this function called digitalRead.
And it takes an an argument,
one argument, the pin.
And it just returns the state of the pin,
which is either low or high.
Now that note that it returns an int, so
if you look at the example,
I say I create an int pinval.
I say pinval = digitalRead(3).
So what that does, is it reads the state
of pin 3, assumes it's either 0 volts or
5 volts and returns low if it's 0 volts,
high if it's 5 volts.
Now notice that pinval is an int, so
you can interpret that as a 0 and a 1.
0 meaning low, 1 meaning high.
So that's what this function is for.
Now, one thing to note is that the pinMode
function that we talked about before,
usually you invoke that in the setup,
right?
Where this might be invoked in the loop.
You're invoking the setup because
typically with these pins,
when you set the input or
output state of the pin,
you usually do it once in the beginning,
that's common.
Now you can change the pinMode
while it's running, but usually,
you see inside the setup is
where you set the pinMode.
Where the digital reads and digital
writes usually see those inside the loop.
So this is how you read
the value of a pin.
And then if you want to write to a pin,
you call digitalWrite.
That takes two arguments, the pin, and
the value that you want to write to it.
And the value has to be either low or
high, which would be zero or one.
Zero volts, five volts.
So, it assigns state of the pin.
So if you say digitalWRITE like I do here,
digitalWrite(3,
HIGH) it's gonna set pin 3 to high,
which would be 5 volts.
Now, for the analog pins,
remember the analog,
we can't drive analog output data, right?
We can't take a pin and
make it an analog output, but
we can read analog input data off of the
pins, off of the analog pins in any rate.
Now, what actually happens
is that the analog value,
remember our processor,
it is a digital processor.
So, it really needs to see digital values.
But we want to be able to read analog
values, so the processor inside it,
the microprocessor inside it,
has an analog to digital converter.
Which, when you call this function
analogRead, it reads the analog value off
of the pin and then converts it to digital
using the analog to digital converter and
then our code gets the result.
So, what happens is, analogRead returns
the state of of the analog input pin,
but it returns an integer from 0 to 1023,
1,023.
Now 0 is the bottom of the range,
so if you've got 0 volts on this pin,
it's gonna return you a 0.
And the top of the range is 5 volts.
So if it sees 5 volts then
it's gonna return you a 1023.
And it'll return you numbers in
between according to the voltage.
So, for instance,
say your voltage is right between 0 and
5 volts, so you get 2.5 volts.
Then number this returns is gonna be right
between 0 and 1023, which is 512, right?
Something like that, 511, 512.
So it's gonna return you a digital
number that corresponds to the analog
voltage that it reads off of the pin.
Again, it returns an integer.
So, you can see in the example,
pinval, again, is an int.
I say analogRead(A3).
Remember that the pin that you passed as
argument to this, has to be an analog pin,
because it's analog read,
it won't work for a digital pin.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]